Documentation: nRF Desktop multi DFU (#11173)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/doc/dfu_lock.rst

.. _nrf_desktop_dfu_lock:

DFU lock utility
################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The DFU lock utility provides synchronization mechanism for accessing the DFU flash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DFU lock utility provides a synchronization mechanism for accessing the DFU flash.
```

> It is especially useful for application configurations that support more than one DFU method.

Reviewer: Agree.

> The DFU lock utility provides basic synchronization API for all declared DFU owners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DFU lock utility provides a basic synchronization API for all declared DFU owners.
```

Each DFU owner can be declared using the :c:struct:`dfu_lock_owner` structure.
The :c:func:`dfu_lock_claim` function is used to claim ownership over the DFU flash.

> This function returns error if the lock is already taken by another DFU owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function returns an error if the lock has already been taken by another DFU owner.
```

The :c:func:`dfu_lock_release` function is used to free the DFU flash from the current owner.

> This function returns error on the release attempt that is not triggered by the current owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function returns an error on the release attempt that is not triggered by the current owner.
```

> The :c:member:`dfu_lock_owner.owner_changed` callback is used to indicate the change in ownership to the previous owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :c:member:`dfu_lock_owner.owner_changed` callback is used to indicate the change in ownership.
```

Reviewer: This suggestion is not fixed.

Author: sorry, I missed that one

> The previous owner can use this callback for a proper bookkeeping of dirty DFU flash that needs to be erased on subsequent DFU attempts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous owner can use this callback for tracking the DFU flash that needs to be erased on subsequent DFU attempts.
```

Configuration
*************

Use the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_LOCK <config_desktop_app_options>` option to enable the utility module.

> You can adjust the logging level of this utility by changing the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_LOCK_LOG_LEVEL <config_desktop_app_options>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can adjust the logging level of this utility by changing the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_LOCK_LOG_LEVEL <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option.
```

The :c:func:`dfu_lock_claim` function is used to claim ownership over the DFU flash.
This function returns an error if the lock has already been taken by another DFU owner.
The :c:func:`dfu_lock_release` function is used to free the DFU flash from the current owner.
This function returns an error on the release attempt that is not triggered by the current owner.
The :c:member:`dfu_lock_owner.owner_changed` callback is used to indicate the change in ownership to the previous owner.
The previous owner can use this callback for tracking the DFU flash status and the need to erase it before subsequent DFU attempts.

.. note::
    The nRF Desktop DFU transports must voluntary take lock before accessing flash and release it after they stop using it.
    The DFU lock utility does not provide any protection against the DFU transport module that writes to flash memory without taking a lock. 

Configuration
*************

Use the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_LOCK <config_desktop_app_options>` option to enable the utility module.
This option is automatically enabled if more that one DFU transport is enabled in the application configuration.

> It supports the following configuration combinations:
> 
> * The :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_CONFIG_CHANNEL_DFU_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` and the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It supports the following configuration combinations:

*  :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_CONFIG_CHANNEL_DFU_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` 
*  :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>` options.
```

Author: I suppose I wasn't clear here. Can we rephrase it in the following way?

```suggestion
Currently, the DFU lock utility is automatically used if you enable at least two DFU transports in your application from the following list:

* :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_CONFIG_CHANNEL_DFU_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>`
* :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>`
```

.. _nrf_desktop_dfu_lock:

DFU lock utility
################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The DFU lock utility provides a synchronization mechanism for accessing the DFU flash.

> It is needed for application configurations that support more than one DFU transports.

Reviewer 2: Can be addressed later

The DFU lock utility provides a basic synchronization API for all declared DFU owners.
Each DFU owner can be declared using the :c:struct:`dfu_lock_owner` structure.
The :c:func:`dfu_lock_claim` function is used to claim ownership over the DFU flash.
This function returns an error if the lock has already been taken by another DFU owner.

> The :c:func:`dfu_lock_release` function is used to free the DFU flash from the current owner.

Reviewer 3: `... is used by the current to release the DFU flash when it's no longer used.`

This function returns an error on the release attempt that is not triggered by the current owner.
The :c:member:`dfu_lock_owner.owner_changed` callback is used to indicate the change in ownership to the previous owner.
The previous owner can use this callback for tracking the DFU flash status and the need to erase it before subsequent DFU attempts.

.. note::
    The nRF Desktop DFU transports must voluntary take lock before accessing flash and release it after they stop using it.
    The DFU lock utility does not provide any protection against the DFU transport module that writes to flash memory without taking a lock.

Configuration
*************

Use the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_LOCK <config_desktop_app_options>` option to enable the utility module.

> This option is automatically enabled if more that one DFU transport is enabled in the application configuration.
> Currently, the DFU lock utility is automatically used if you enable at least two DFU transports in your application from the following list:
> 
> * :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_CONFIG_CHANNEL_DFU_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>`
> * :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option is automatically enabled if more that one DFU transport is enabled in the application configuration.

Currently, the DFU lock utility is automatically used if you enable the following DFU transports in your application:

* :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_CONFIG_CHANNEL_DFU_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>`
* :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_MCUMGR_ENABLE <config_desktop_app_options>`
```
Is the understanding correct here?
The suggestion is added with the understanding that, when the above two Kconfig options are enabled, the module  is automatically used.

Author: sure

> You can adjust the logging level of this utility by changing the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_LOCK_LOG_LEVEL <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 4: As far as I know these Kconfig references are correct and this solution is intentional (they're not listed under the Kconfig search, however, they do point to the bottom of the nRF Desktop documentation page where the options are properly covered).

> You can adjust the logging level of this utility by changing the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_LOCK_LOG_LEVEL <config_desktop_app_options>` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 2: Ah of course, it's a Kconfig that is part of nrf_desktop not global, my bad.

The DFU lock utility provides a basic synchronization API for all declared DFU owners.
Each DFU owner can be declared using the :c:struct:`dfu_lock_owner` structure.
The :c:func:`dfu_lock_claim` function is used to claim ownership over the DFU flash.
This function returns an error if the lock has already been taken by another DFU owner.
The :c:func:`dfu_lock_release` function is used to free the DFU flash from the current owner.
This function returns an error on the release attempt that is not triggered by the current owner.
The :c:member:`dfu_lock_owner.owner_changed` callback is used to indicate the change in ownership.
The previous owner can use this callback for tracking the DFU flash status and the need to erase it before subsequent DFU attempts.

.. note::
    The nRF Desktop DFU transports must voluntary take lock before accessing flash and release it after they stop using it.
    The DFU lock utility does not provide any protection against the DFU transport module that writes to flash memory without taking a lock.

Configuration
*************

Use the :ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_DFU_LOCK <config_desktop_app_options>` option to enable the utility module.

> This option is automatically enabled if more that one DFU transport is enabled in the application configuration.

Reviewer 3: I would completely remove this sentence as we provide exact information in the following one (this sentence may be a bit misleading)

> Currently, the DFU lock utility is automatically used if you enable the following DFU transports in your application:

Reviewer 3: `if you enable both supported DFU transports in your application`

Author: @divipillai, can we rephrase it like that?

> Currently, the DFU lock utility is automatically used if you enable the following DFU transports in your application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the DFU lock utility is automatically used if you enable the following supported DFU transports in your application:
```
Since the Kconfig options are mentioned below, it is good to point to them.
